# FinalExamIntroToCG
 The first thing that was done was the scrolling background. It was done through a shader technique known as scrolling texture. The background of the game scrolls to the right continuasly. First I took a screen shot of the background of the game, At first i took a screen shot of the whole screen but the ground isnt moving so that doesnt make sense. so i cropped it to the background only. This background image will be used for the scoll. The next thing I did was create the scrolling shader. The shader uses two things scroll amount and the main texture. The scroll amount can be changed so i have decided that the background will scroll to the right. Within the shader the scroll amount is placed on the main texture coordinates which in turn make the texture move. It was done the way it was because of its simplicty, The scroll doesn't need to do anything crazy it just needs to move to one direction. And that is why I multiplied the scroll x property with time and not the scroll y. it needs to move one direction not two. I used scrolling for the background as i think that makes the most sense from the game play that I have seen. 
 
 The next thing I added was the colour correction. I got a fbx of a goomma from https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/goomba-d682adfe7978494cafc9c68507dc98cf#download The reason why I added this to the scene was to add more depth to the scene. the picture i used for the background has a goomba in it but it is flat and since its part of the image makes it very difficult to apply a shader to it, this is why i have imported a fbx of the goomba from https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/goomba-d682adfe7978494cafc9c68507dc98cf#download . I imported the fbx into the scene and then starting writing the shader. In the shader I use the colour tint to change the colour of the goomba to a brown colour. The original fbx was white so i thought that this was the perfect oppourtunity to use colour correction. after all thats the use of colour correction, to correct the colour. The colour correction shader uses a base tint and applies it to the albedo of the object. since the goomba was white this made perfect sense to use colour correction. 
 
 The next shader I have done was the hologram shader. I have placed the hologram shader onto the players cross hair and changed to colour to a pinkish red. I saw the crosshair in the image and i found it to be rather bleek so I have decided to alter it. I figured using a hologram would make the crosshair pop out. I have done this to give the players cross hair a pop to it. And in the game the cross hair in my opinion is very basic and adding a hologram to it makes it better as you can see through it making where you aim and shoot even more clear. And many games like valorant has a option for seethough on the cross hair so i thought adding one of my own would work well. The hologram shader takes the cameras view point and adds a glow effect on it using rim colour and rim power. And the hologram has the alpha data to fade which stops the center if the object from being seen which makes it great for a cross hair. I make the hologram pink so that you can tell a shader has been added. 
 
 The final shader i have implemented is the toon shader on the goomba. I have gotten the same goomba from https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/goomba-d682adfe7978494cafc9c68507dc98cf#download and the reason why i added another goomba is the same reason as the for the colour correction, depth and lighting. I imported the toon ramp from the lecture slides and implemented the shader to do the toon shading. And I wanted to demonstrate the different effects of shaders on the same goomba. Having a stand alone object makes implementing shaders so much easier and the object is affected by light whereas the images are not. I have chosen the toon shader as the game yoshis safari is not a realistic game at all. There is a lighthearted theme to the game and to encapsulate that theme i used toon shading. The entire game is cartoonish so it makes sense to add a toon shader, Now I used the toon shader on the other goomba because I wanted to show the different lighting for those two. Also having different effects on the goomba can idicate different things like goomba type and the distance from the player. Also having the toon shader makes the goomba aestectically pleasing so i have decided to implement it. Toon shader works by using a toon ramp to adjust lighting. rather then having a gradual colour change from the light, toon shading has a very steep colour change, making the object look like a cartoon. Now the ramp bands decide how the light will effect parts of the object. I have the two goombas side by side so that the player can see the differences in those two shaders. this was a simplistic approach into demonstrating the effects of shaders.
 
Diagrams:

Scolling Texture:
Get main texture > get coordinates of the texture > multiply coords by time > show on screen

Colour Correction:
Get colour tint and texture if needed > Use lambert lighting as the foundation lighting > in rendering apply the colour tint onto the pixels of the object > show on screen

Hologram Shader:
Get rim colour and rim power > get view direction of camera > with reference to camera apply rim colour and rim power > Set Alpha to fade > show on screen

Toon Shader:
Get colour and ramp > get light direction > based off ramp assign shade and colour > show on screen

Here's a downloadable build for the game https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m3RSiL7ObtMXaSBYdEylfSgh8TUuVPVs/view?usp=sharing
